TiUP: Add tiup-dm-topology-reference.md (#5318)
pingcap/docs: tiup/tiup-dm-topology-reference.md

---
title: Topology Configuration File for DM Cluster Deployment using TiUP
---

# Topology Configuration File for DM Cluster Deployment using TiUP

To deploy or scale a TiDB Data Migration (DM) cluster, you need to provide a topology file to describe the cluster topology. Similarly, to modify the cluster topology, you need to modify the topology file. The difference is that you can only modify a part of the fields in the topology file.

Here is an [example topology file](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/blob/master/embed/templates/examples/dm/topology.example.yaml) for your reference.

## File Structure

> The topology file of a DM cluster might contain the following blocks:

Reviewer: Refer to https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/5314/files#diff-33150822cf42e37369ebf2cd8dec35142aefda117ef5015af5755e6465d56d02R13
```suggestion
The topology file of a DM cluster might contain the following sections:
```

> - [global](/tiup/tiup-dm-topology-reference.md#global): the global configuration of the cluster. Some of the configuration items use the default values on the cluster, and you can configure them separately in each instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [global](#global): the global configuration of the cluster. Some of the configuration items use the default values on the cluster, and you can configure them separately in each instance.
```
Self-referencing only needs an anchor name without a file name.

> - [server_configs](#server_configs): the components' global configuration. You can configure each component separately. If an instance has a configuration item with the same name, the instance's configuration item will take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [server_configs](#server_configs): the components' global configuration. You can configure each component separately. If an instance has a configuration item with the same key, the instance's configuration item will take effect.
```

- [grafana_servers](#grafana_servers): the configuration of the Grafana instances. The configuration specifies the machines to which the Grafana instances are deployed.
- [alertmanager_servers](#alertmanager_servers): the configuration of the Alertemanager instances. The configuration specifies the machines to which the Alertmanager instances are deployed.

### `global`

The `global` section corresponds to the cluster's global configuration and has the following fields:

- `user`: the user to start the deployed cluster. The default value is "tidb". If the user specified in the `<user>` field does not exist on the target machine, TiUP will automatically try to create the user.
- `group`: the user group to which a user belongs when the user is automatically created. The default value is the same as the `<user>` field. If the specified group does not exist, it will be created automatically.
- `ssh_port`: the SSH port to connect to the target machine for operations. The default value is "22".

> - `deploy_dir`: the deployment directory for each component. The default value is "deploy". The application rules are as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `deploy_dir`: the deployment directory for each component. The default value is "deploy". The construction rules are as follows:
```

    - If the absolute path `deploy_dir` is configured at the instance level, the actual deployment directory is the `deploy_dir` configured for the instance.
    - For each instance, if you do not configure `deploy_dir`, the default value is the relative path `<component-name>-<component-port>`.
    - If `global.deploy_dir` is set to an absolute path, the component is deployed to `<global.deploy_dir>/<instance.deploy_dir>` directory.
    - If `global.deploy_dir` is set to a relative path, the component is deployed to `/home/<global.user>/<global.deploy_dir>/<instance.deploy_dir>` directory.

> - `data_dir`: the data directory. The default value is "data". The application rules are as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `data_dir`: the data directory. The default value is "data". The construction rules are as follows.
```

    - If the absolute path `data_dir` is configured at the instance level, the actual data directory is the `data_dir` configured for the instance.
    - For each instance, if `data_dir` is not configured, the default value is `<global.data_dir>`.

>     - If `data_dir` is set to a relative path, the component data is stored in `<deploy_dir>/<data_dir>`. For the calculation rules of `<deploy_dir>`, see the application rules of the `deploy_dir` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If `data_dir` is set to a relative path, the component data is stored in `<deploy_dir>/<data_dir>`. For the construction rules of `<deploy_dir>`, see the construction rules of the `deploy_dir` field.
```

> - `log_dir`: the data directory. The default value is "log". The application rules are as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `log_dir`: the data directory. The default value is "log". The construction rules are as follows.
```

    - If the absolute path of `log_dir` is configured at the instance level, the actual log directory is the `log_dir` configured for the instance.
    - For each instance, if `log_dir` is not configured by the user, the default value is `<global.log_dir>`.

>     - If `log_dir` is a relative path, the component logs will be stored in `<deploy_dir>/<log_dir>`. For the calculation rules of `<deploy_dir>`, see the application rules of the `deploy_dir` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If `log_dir` is a relative path, the component logs will be stored in `<deploy_dir>/<log_dir>`. For the construction rules of `<deploy_dir>`, see the construction rules of the `deploy_dir` field.
```

- `ssh_port`: specifies the SSH port to connect to the target machine for operations. If the field is not specified, the `ssh_port` in the `global` section is used.
- `name`: specifies the name of the DM master instance. The name must be unique for different instances. Otherwise, the cluster cannot be deployed.
- `port`: specifies the port on which DM master provides services. The default value is "8261".
- `peer_port`: specifies the port for communication between DM masters. The default value is "8291".
- `deploy_dir`: specifies the deployment directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the deployment directory is generated according to the `deploy_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `data_dir`: specifies the data directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the data directory is generated according to the `data_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `log_dir`: specifies the log directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the log directory is generated according to the `log_dir` configuration in the `global` section.

> - `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is the string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is a string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1".
```

- `config`: the configuration rules of this field are the same as that of `master` in the `server_configs` section. If `config` is specified, the configuration of `config` will be merged with the configuration of `master` in `server_configs` (if the two fields overlap, the configuration of this field takes effect), and then the configuration file is generated and distributed to the machine specified in the `host` field.
- `os`: the operating system of the machine specified in the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `os` value configured in the `global` section.

> - `arch`: the architecture of the machine specified by the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `arch` value configured in the `global` section.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `arch`: the architecture of the machine specified in the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `arch` value configured in the `global` section.
```

- `host`: specifies the machine to deploy to. The field value is an IP address and is mandatory.
- `ssh_port`: specifies the SSH port to connect to the target machine for operations. If the field is not specified, the `ssh_port` in the `global` section is used.
- `name`: specifies the name of the DM worker instance. The name must be unique for different instances. Otherwise, the cluster cannot be deployed.
- `port`: specifies the port on which DM worker provides services. The default value is "8262".
- `deploy_dir`: specifies the deployment directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the deployment directory is generated according to the `deploy_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `data_dir`: specifies the data directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the data directory is generated according to the `data_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `log_dir`: specifies the log directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the log directory is generated according to the `log_dir` configuration in the `global` section.

> - `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is the string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is a string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1".
```

- `host`: specifies the machine to deploy to. The field value is an IP address and is mandatory.
- `ssh_port`: specifies the SSH port to connect to the target machine for operations. If the field is not specified, the `ssh_port` in the `global` section is used.
- `port`: specifies the port on which Prometheus provides services. The default value is "9090".
- `deploy_dir`: specifies the deployment directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the deployment directory is generated according to the `deploy_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `data_dir`: specifies the data directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the data directory is generated according to the `data_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `log_dir`: specifies the log directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the log directory is generated according to the `log_dir` configuration in the `global` section.

> - `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is the string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is a string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1"
```

- `os`: the operating system of the machine specified in the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `os` value configured in the `global` section.
- `arch`: the architecture of the machine specified in the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `arch` value configured in the `global` section.
- `resource_control`: resource control on this service. If this field is specified, the configuration of this field will be merged with the configuration of `resource_control` in the `global` section (if the two fields overlap, the configuration of this field takes effect), and then the configuration file of systemd is generated and distributed to the machine specified in the `host` field. The configuration rules of this field are the same as that of `resource_control` in the `global` section.

In the `monitoring_servers` section, the following fields cannot be modified after the deployment is completed: 

- `host`
- `port`
- `deploy_dir`
- `data_dir`
- `log_dir`
- `arch`
- `os`

A `monitoring_servers` configuration example is as follows:

```yaml
monitoring_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.11
    rule_dir: /local/rule/dir
```

> ### ``grafana_servers``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `grafana_servers`
```

- `arch`: the architecture of the machine specified in the `host` field. If the field is not specified, the default value is the `arch` value configured in the `global` section.
- `username`: specifies the username of the Grafana login screen.
- `password`: specifies the corresponding password of Grafana.
- `dashboard_dir`: specifies a local directory where the complete `dashboard(*.json)` files are located. The files in the specified directory will be sent to the target machine as Grafana dashboards during the initialization phase of the cluster configuration.
- `resource_control`: resource control on this service. If this field is specified, the configuration of this field will be merged with the configuration of `resource_control` in the `global` section (if the two fields overlap, the configuration of this field takes effect), and then the configuration file of systemd is generated and distributed to the machine specified in the `host` field. The configuration rules of this field are the same as that of `resource_control` in the `global` section.

> **Note:**
>

> > If the `dashboard_dir` field of `grafana_servers` is configured, after executing the `tiup cluster rename` command to rename the cluster, you need to do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If the `dashboard_dir` field of `grafana_servers` is configured, after executing the `tiup cluster rename` command to rename the cluster, you need to perform the following operations:
```

>

> > 1. In the local `dashboards` directory, update the value of the `datasource` field to the new cluster name (the `datasource` is named according to the cluster name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 1. In the local `dashboards` directory, update the value of the `datasource` field to the new cluster name (the `datasource` is named after the cluster name).
```

> 2. Execute the `tiup cluster reload -R grafana` command.

In `grafana_servers`, the following fields cannot be modified after the deployment is completed:

- `host`
- `port`
- `deploy_dir`
- `arch`
- `os`

A `grafana_servers` configuration example is as follows:

```yaml
grafana_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.11
    dashboard_dir: /local/dashboard/dir
```

### `alertmanager_servers`

`alertmanager_servers` specifies the machines to which the Alertmanager service is deployed. You can also specify the service configuration on each machine. `alertmanager_servers` is an array. Each array element contains the following fields:

- `host`: specifies the machine to deploy to. The field value is an IP address and is mandatory.
- `ssh_port`: specifies the SSH port to connect to the target machine for operations. If the field is not specified, the `ssh_port` in the `global` section is used.

> - `web_port`: specify the port on which Alertmanager provides webpage services. The default value is "9093".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `web_port`: specify the port on which Alertmanager provides web services. The default value is "9093".
```

> - `cluster_port`: Specify the port on which Alertmanger communicates with Alertmanagers. The default value is "9094".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cluster_port`: Specify the communication port between one Alertmanger and other Alertmanager. The default value is "9094".
```

- `deploy_dir`: specifies the deployment directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the deployment directory is generated according to the `deploy_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `data_dir`: specifies the data directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the data directory is generated according to the `data_dir` configuration in the `global` section.
- `log_dir`: specifies the log directory. If the field is not specified, or specified as a relative directory, the log directory is generated according to the `log_dir` configuration in the `global` section.

> - `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is the string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `numa_node`: allocates the NUMA policy to the instance. Before specifying this field, you need to make sure that the target machine has [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl) installed. If this field is specified, cpubind and membind policies are allocated using [numactl](https://linux.die.net/man/8/numactl). This field is a string type. The field value is the ID of the NUMA node, such as "0,1"
```
